---
description: EverQuest Emulator Server code changes for year 2010
---

# 2003

## 12/21/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Ive been busy the last few days updating all the opcodes and structs for the recent patch.  Nearly everything works again please post any remaining unknown opcodes to the development forum.

## 12/16/2003

* **Image** Fixed \#zsave and added \#zunderworld so you can set the zcoord for underworld.

## 12/15/2003

* **Image** Took out an HP update in NPC::Damage\(\) reduces HP updates big time and kills network traffic.
* **Image** All HP Updates are done only to targets now, TODO: Queue group clients with HP updates \(once they work again\)

## 12/14/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a bug in tradeskills that was clearing the container before it was telling the client to.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed the opcode for mend.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed the guild trainer messages.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed char create so it creates the character with a new aa struct.
* **LethalEncounter** Important fix for mob movement via waypoints and such.  Mobs now move nearly exactly like live and it uses 20 times less bandwidth than before.

## 12/13/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed Environmental Damage
* **LethalEncounter** Added support for a new database variable called startzone.

  To use this, add a record called startzone to the variables table and make the value the zone shortname you want players to start in. This will force all players to start in that zone.

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a bug that Shawn found where /zone wouldnt work correctly in zones with similiar names.

## 12/12/2003

* **Shawn319** \(Bud9weiser\) Fixed start\_zones bug. Players should now start in correct location as long as db is up to date.
* **LethalEncounter** Item tint fix.
* **LethalEncounter** Tradeskill items being deleted without correct recipe fix.
* **LethalEncounter** Problem with the ' character inserting into the bug table fixed.

## 12/11/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Added Archery in for pvp.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a throw bug.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed char select colors not matching your colors in game.

## 12/10/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed the weapon delay bug.  Special thanks to haecz for bring this to our attention.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed dup money bug.  Special thanks to afrospy also for bring this to our attention.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed Bazaar Traders, they should work correctly.

## 12/09/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixes for item tints and dyes.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed NPC textures finally.

## 12/08/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed Horses/Drogmors.

## 12/07/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a bug with pets causing lag.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a crash bug/1017 bug related to login in, people on slow/lagged connections should be able to login fairly

  consistently now.

## 12/02/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Trumpcard and I completely rewrote the linked lists to improve lag, they are about 4 times more efficient now.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a small bug with zone points. BE SURE YOUR USING THE MOST UP-TO-DATE TABLE!!

## 11/30/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed various loot bugs, including the duplicate lore item, blah blah blah bug..
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed \#zonestatus and /servers to be on multiple lines
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed /who all guild tags to display the right guild
* **LethalEncounter** Added the ability to send multi-lined emotes with the   newline.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed the bug that gave the message: "Multiplier

## 11/29/2003

* **Image** Fixed last names for clients \(When a new client zoned in, didn't send lastname\).

## 11/28/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Added a default instance for pets that arent created via legit spells.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed the spell scribe issues.

## 11/25/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Added a new table called ground\_spawns.  This will allow you to spawn items randomly throughout the zone. Use this for only random locations, use the object table for static ones.
* **LethalEncounter** Added Timers for ground spawns so they will respawn based on the time you set.

## 11/24/2003

* **Image** Fixed zoning and deaths so you no longer drop from the server.
* **Image** Properly enabled LDoN on EQEmu.
* **Image** Basic Adventure Merchant code implemented, throwing it to the STL guys to properly optimize.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed Tradeskill objects.  If the objects show up as bags, thats a db issue

## 11/23/2003

* **Trumpcard**  Several zone performance enhancements, as well as changes to decrease combat lag.
* **LethalEncounter** Reworked pets, they should now work properly.

## 11/21/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Merchants wont trade with people while they are fighting now.
* **LethalEncounter** Players can no longer attack while invulnerable.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed an AA bug that gave the player 199 aa points.

## 11/18/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Lotsa cool fixes like crash fixes and guild fixes and cool stuff like that

## 11/17/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Finally got /who all done and _hopefully_ free of bugs.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a crash bug with guilds and added some of the Guildmanagement features.

## 11/16/2003

* **Trumpcard** Several deallocate and mem leak errors corrected.
* **solar** Fixed bug with mobs assisting entities they shouldn't. Often this

  show itself with other mobs helping the player when the player

  attacked one.

* **LethalEncounter** Added in the GuildManagement tool. You will need 2 new columns in your character\_ table for this.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a couple crash bugs with guilds and spells.

## 11/15/2003

* **solar** Fixed a bug in commands where if you didn't define an accesslevel for a command

  in the addon.ini it would default to accesslevel 0 instead of the hardcoded default.

* **solar** Modified \#help command to search for a partial command specified as argument.
* **solar** HP wasn't being updated to client properly and would fall out of sync

## 11/14/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a bug in doors that would cause triggered doors to go into an endless loop and crash.

## 11/13/2003

* **kathgar** Fixed a crash when calling ZSList::FindByZoneID\(\) when sending an invalid zone number.

  ```text
     Stack was corrupt in the backtrace, so I am not sure what called it in this way.
  ```

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed animation bug with attack.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed Tradeskills \(again\)
* **LethalEncounter** Character Select will now show your equipment \(Existing characters will need to swap the items\)
* **LethalEncounter** NPCs will now equip weapons and items from the db.
* **LethalEncounter** You can now give weapons and items to NPCs to equip.

## 11/12/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed skills, we had the struct one int32 off.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed GM Trainers, they should now work as intended.

## 11/11/2003

* **Doodman** Fixed zone crash in CheckCloseArrgo\(\) during assist checking based on

  flawed if logic.

## 11/11/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed Stamina issues.

## 11/10/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed Quests.
* **LethalEncounter** A quest fix that makes them use far less memory, up to 25 MB per computer

## 11/09/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed zoning, zone\_points should now work correctly, but make sure you have the latest ones in zone\_points!
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed problem with spells not scribing.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed zoning bug where you zoned back into the same zone, but it looked like you were in the new zone.

## 11/06/2003

* **Image** Guildwars code and fixed a bug in MobAI for NPCs assisting clients, clients do not use

  IsEngaged\(\), so it always returned false, now it uses AutoAttackEnabled\(\) in its place for clients.

* **Image** Reversed the AICheckCloseSpells if statements, now sanity checks before distance check, uses less CPU usage.

## 11/05/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Updated all of the opcodes that were changed in the patch today.
* **LethalEncounter** Refined AA's some, added table to hold the timers for AA's so users can exploit them. Look in db.sql for the table.

## 11/04/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Added in the basic structure for AA's and got some of them working.

## 11/03/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed factions.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed issues with mobs of different factions or no faction assisting.

## 10/29/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed X, Y coords.
* **LethalEncounter** Added in groups.
* **LethalEncounter** Added in trades.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed various animations.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed client movement.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed NPC movement.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed forage.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed Attack.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed GM summon.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed GM goto.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed spells.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed lifts.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed automatic weather changes.  Change the default in the zone table to suit your needs. 1: normal 2: Rainy most of the time 3: Snowing most of the time
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed lotsa other important stuff that I cant remember :\)

## 10/29/2003

* **devn00b** Yet again removed Faulty pet code. LEAVE THEM ALONE

## 10/17/2003

* **Image** Zone points code put in, need some testing done on it please!

## 10/15/2003

* **Image** More optimization to the aggro code and an infinite for loop fixed.

## 10/14/2003

* **kathgar** Removed deprecated guildwars code Added \#ifdefs for IPC code, no more IsInteractive checks wasting cycles Fixed a memleak in NPC with attacked\_timer
* **merth** Updated zone objects:
  * Uses new item architecture
  * Fully supports imported data from packet collector
  * Objects dropped to ground persist zone sessions

## 10/13/2003

* **Image** Optimizations to Aggro code, ~10% more efficient according to Trumpcard.

## 10/11/2003

* **Trumpcard** Lots of performance improvements to combat code/AI code. Streamlined several calls, and found and removed unneeded calls

  ```text
   in MobAI that were causing serious bottlenecks.  Went through and caught a few memory leaks, and converted
   many deletes to safe deletes.
  ```

## 10/10/2003

* **LethalEncounter** Somewhere around this date I added in bazaar traders and cool features like that.

## 10/8/2003

* **Trumpcard**  Starting items are now in.  LE also fixed the combat damage struct and mob hp bar updates.

## 10/8/2003

* **scruffy**  Inverted the XY coordinates system to work like the EQLive system. Run invertxy.sql to update existing databases.

## 10/6/2003

* **kathgar**  Added opcodes for things such as the LFG tool from SEQ, replaced some instances of static opcode use

## 10/5/2003

* **devn00b** Removed Faulty pet code, replaced with working code.

## 09/24/2003

* **Image** Added the functions for the GuildWars point system.

## 8/10/2003

* **devn00b** Moved pets from hardcoded to DB based. need to source pets.sql

