---
description: EverQuest Emulator Server code changes for year 2004
---

# 2004

## 01/04/2004

* **Doodman** opcode/struct changes to allw zoning in on live.

## 12/29/2004

* **Doodman** Fixed leak in Separator

## 12/21/2004

* **FatherNitwit** fixed item handing to non-quest NPCs
* **FatherNitwit** delete nodrop or norent items left in world containers
* **FatherNitwit** changed quest::spawn commands to return the NPC ID of the spawned mob \(in XS\)
* **FatherNitwit** Cleaned up perl variable setting a lot
* **FatherNitwit** Tribute masters should work completely now.
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed login problem wher chars get into zone and move, but nothing else works.
* **FatherNitwit** fixed \#level and other leveling commands to give proper ammount of training points.
* **FatherNitwit** Added new extended player profile for emu custom data storage
* **FatherNitwit** Implemented elemental damage on weapons
* **FatherNitwit** Cleaned up memory allocation a bunch
* **FatherNitwit** Made merchant lists load async, to speed dynamic boots
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed repop to not kill player pets.
* **FatherNitwit** Made pets cross teleport doors with their master.
* **FatherNitwit** Tweaked teleport doors, they should always work now.
* **FatherNitwit** Added optional command logging
* **FatherNitwit** Moved a lot of hard coded access levels for commands to features.h
* **FatherNitwit** Added optional status requirement to zone to specific coords
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed several minor crashes.
* **FatherNitwit** Added the unfearable flag \(D in special attacks\) to mobs.
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed mana burn and life burn \(from Branks\)
* **FatherNitwit** Added optional packet manager for mob movement packets \(PACKET\_UPDATE\_MANAGER\)
* **FatherNitwit**   Configure it in updatemgr.cpp \(level\_distances2,level\_timers\)
* **FatherNitwit** Added reference counting to applayer packet \(for broadcasts\)
* **FatherNitwit** Improved packet profiler a bunch, added \#packetprofile command
* **FatherNitwit** Cleaned up eq\_packet\_structs.h a bit
* **FatherNitwit** Required DB update:

  ALTER TABLE character\_ ADD extprofile BLOB NOT NULL;

## 11/20/2004

* **Doodman** Fixed merchant selling bug on merchant slot

## 11/18/2004

* **Doodman** Fixed the initialization of augs on NPC loot that was causing a zone crash when looting NPC's

## 11/16/2004

* **Doodman** Implemented Augmentation inserting, removal and distilling.
* **Doodman** Augment saves in inventory, shared bank, player\_corpse and object\_contents.
* **Doodman** Fixed world to detect and cleanup a zone disconnect immediately instead of when it tries to write to it.
* **Doodman** Reimplmented cursor queue using an actually queue.  Should be unlimited depth now.
* **Doodman** Updated items for new fields and new names.

## 11/10/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a couple of corpse related bugs.
* **LethalEncounter** Added in various functions for the new login system.

## 11/09/2004

* **FatherNitwit** Fixed minor crash with new grid delay thing.

## 11/08/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed loot bug with stacked items.
* **LethalEncounter** Added a 10 second timer to grid assignments to speed up zone in time.
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed invalid bind zone crash.
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed taunt crash.
* **FatherNitwit** Initial tribute system. Dosent give benefits, or save state yet.
* **FatherNitwit** Proximity quests: added quest::set\_proximity, quest::clear\_proximity
* **FatherNitwit** Proximity quests: added events: EVENT\_ENTER, EVENT\_EXIT
* **FatherNitwit** Added event queue for perl commands which cause perl events, like spawn and attack
* **FatherNitwit** Added the ability to define in game commands in perl \(EMBPERL\_COMMANDS\)
* **FatherNitwit** Hopefully fixed multiple-death XP loss bug.
* **FatherNitwit** Hopefully fixed mob chain-casting buffs when target is immune
* **FatherNitwit** Reworked quest timers to not crash if the NPC depops/dies.
* **FatherNitwit** Added simple code profiling capabilities \(-DEQPROFILE + features.h\)
* **FatherNitwit** Rewrote command list to be map based instead of flat array
* **FatherNitwit** Rewrote NPC assist to use AIYellForHelp at regular intervals instead of each scan tic
* **FatherNitwit** Rewrote NPC assist code to use npc faction values to determine assist
* **FatherNitwit** Rewrote NPC aggro code to be a ton more effecient \(REVERSE\_AGGRO\)
* **FatherNitwit** Rewrote NPC spell casting code to be a ton more effecient
* **FatherNitwit** Run this query \(value of 1

## 11/07/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Added in three variables per feature request.

## 11/06/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed Merchant bug that wouldnt let you buy anything.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed stack bug that wouldnt automatically stack any items you bought.

## 11/05/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Client Freeze/Black Screen of Death bugs have been eliminated.
* **LethalEncounter** Added a simple count to our linked list so we can process a few things faster and more efficiently.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a small compile bug in regards to corpses.

## 11/04/2004

* **FatherNitwit** Fixed exploit with split that kathgar found.

## 11/01/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Inventory items on zone in are now sent in one packet like live instead of individual packets.  This will save on bandwidth and processing time.
* **Cofruben** Added support for /makeleader command.
* **FatherNitwit** Increased max buffs from 15 to 20
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed group zoning
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed loading map files on UNIX with capitol letters
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed a couple crashed related to old AA stuff
* **FatherNitwit** Cannot charm a corpse or charm something when you have a pet
* **FatherNitwit** A little work on zoneing with a chanrmed pet, not perfect yet
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed throwing weapons like shurikens
* **FatherNitwit** Broke all the old LDoN points stuff because it moved in the Player profile
* **FatherNitwit** Moved all quest command's logic into the QuestManager class
* **FatherNitwit** Rewrote perl to use XS instead of command queue \(EMBPERL\_XS\)
* **FatherNitwit** Added routines to capture perl errors into proper log IO \(EMBPERL\_IO\_CAPTURE\)
* **FatherNitwit** Added a HUGE set of routines for quest objects, with new variables

  $client, $npc, and $entity\_list... almost the entire class is exported. \(EMBPERL\_XS\_CLASSES\)

* **FatherNitwit** Added capability to send log messages to in-game clients \(CLIENT\_LOGS\)
* **FatherNitwit** Added new log facility for quest messages named Quest
* **FatherNitwit** Added new commands \#logs and \#nologs to request/stop the server sending you its log messages
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed NPC -&gt; NPC aggro, need to run these queries onan older DB:

  ALTER TABLE npc\_faction\_entries ADD npc\_value TINYINT UNSIGNED DEFAULT '0' NOT NULL;

  UPDATE npc\_faction\_entries SET npc\_value=1 WHERE value&lt;0;

## 10/31/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Aside from a few tweeks, merchants are finished.  They will now keep your items after you sell them like live.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed bug that caused falling damage to be calculated twice.
* **LethalEncounter** Changed Sense Heading to start at 200 for new characters.
* **LethalEncounter** Black screen bug should be fixed now.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed bash/slam.

## 10/30/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a few issues with item charges.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed illusions.
* **LethalEncounter** Rewrote the merchant code.  Its now much more efficient and instead of 81 database queries per shop request, a typical request doesnt pull anything from the db.  It loads the information at load time.
* **LethalEncounter** Added in the beginning parts of temporary merchant items. \(you can sell items to merchants and purchase them back\) Download the merchantlist\_temp table from: [http://www.eqemulator.net/sql/merchantlist\_temp.sql](http://www.eqemulator.net/sql/merchantlist_temp.sql)

## 10/27/2004

* **Cofruben** Added LDoN adventure system.Please,source the new sql file\(thanks to skorch for testing\).
* **LethalEncounter** Mob deaths should be sent to all players now.
* **LethalEncounter** ServerType 1 will make you pvp on zone in now.  Still trying figure out why the client doesnt send any pvp special combat abilities unless your dueling.

## 10/26/2004

* **Scorpious2k** Fixed guild doors

## 10/25/2004

* **FatherNitwit** Fixed zone crash related to character\_ query.
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed book reading to give proper book window.
* **FatherNitwit** At least partialy fixed pet dual weild/double attack problem.
* **FatherNitwit** Tweaking on selling stackable items.
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed archery ammo issue.
* **LethalEncounter** Added ability to /consent \(and /deny\) other players so they can drag your corpse.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed bug where other people were able to loot your corpse.

## 10/24/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed bug where you lost air supply on zoning in underwater.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed GM damage bug.

## 10/23/2004

* **FatherNitwit** Enable named quests by default \(in features.h\)
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed decaying world containers problem
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed undead nuke spells
* **FatherNitwit** Minor line of sight optimization
* **FatherNitwit** Minor tradeskill change to avoid a crash
* **FatherNitwit** Changed the way fear duration is calculated, hopefully it is better.
* **FatherNitwit** Implemented beta fear pathing code \(disabled by default in features.h\)
* **LethalEncounter** Reworked AA system and fixed some of the bugs with it.
* **LethalEncounter** Dyes should work correctly now.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed Bazaar trader bug.
* **LethalEncounter** Zones now display the proper fog when you update your zone table with the latest.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed zone crash and merchant item charge bug.

## 10/22/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed item deletion bug not updating client.

## 10/21/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed various AA related bugs.

## 10/20/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Reworked zoning in, solved a couple of issues and should speed the process up a tad.

## 10/19/2004

* **FatherNitwit** Fixed Disciplines and Abilities \(lay hands & harm touch\)
* **FatherNitwit** Added new server variable: DisableNoDrop \(set to 1 takes nodrop off items when loaded\)
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed NPC buffing through walls
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed symbol spell forumulas
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed equip bug when using two handed weapons.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed resurrect bug that let you regain xp more than once.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed bug that was making players corpses disappear on death when they shouldnt have.

## 10/18/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed pet only spells.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed bug that wouldnt let you loot a corpse if someone got an error looting it. \(such as a dupe lore error\)
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed mana regen bug.

## 10/17/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Added some debug code to make it easier for people that cant get minilogin working.
* **LethalEncounter** You will now eat/drink like eqlive if you arent a GM.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed infinite recursion bug I made a few days ago :/

## 10/16/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed mana bug that was causing people not to regen their full mana.
* **LethalEncounter** HP Adjustments, will now send your hp update every tic and only the mob you have targeted \(not including group hp updates\) to reduce bandwidth.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a crash bug on character creation.  Thanks to blahblah for the help :P
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed item charge bug, need to update your database.

## 10/15/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Changes necessary for the new MiniLogin :\)
* **LethalEncounter** Z loc fix, it was placing you ten times the z loc it was supposed to :P

## 10/14/2004

* **Rogean** omg we are so teh 0.6.0DR1 now~
* **FatherNitWit** A HUGE thanks goes out to wiz for letting me have his source to facilitate this merge.

WR Merges:

* An innumerable number of small bug fixes and tweaks all over
* A TON of AAs and related effects
* FISHING!!!!!!!!!
* Many timers enforced by server, not just client.
* Trap support.
* Sense trap and disarm trap
* Group linking
* Zone-crossing pets \(lose their buffs though, for now\)
* Voice graft
* poison and disease counters \(in progress\)
* hunger and thirst \(in progress\)
* stat food
* NPC door opening!
* Optimized idle zones to not eat the CPU
* Items tints display properly
* shielding other players \(in progress\)
* pick pocket
* Optional EXP scaling based on CON level
* Instill Doubt
* Made auto-putting items into bags respect size constraints.
* heal/buff aggro.
* reclaim pet gives you mana back.
* enforce undead and summoned targets spells
* reworked bard songs a bit
* implemented camping properly
* made alcohol tolerance gain skill \(dunno if it does anything yet\)
* better checking of lore items during trades and merchant buying
* prevent interaction with merchants on basis of bad faction
* pets should actually taunt now.
* rouge pets should backstab now.
* optional: group buffs hit group pets now.
* fixed memory blur chances
* several minor group tweaks, should make groups more stable
* improved duel messages
* optional random luclin attributes for NPCs with boring faces
* AGI adjustments based on encumbrance
* AC bonuses for iskars and monks

FatherNitwit Improvements:

* Made most member timers instances, not pointers.
* Rewrote focus effects system, spells that give focus effect should work too.
* Reagent reduction focus implemeneted
* Rewrote activateable AAs and swarm pets based on Brank's work
* AA spell effects are now in the DB, easily editable
* Added a bunch of simple GoD AAs
* Consolidated many \#define options into features.h
* Fixed crash in world when starting zone dosent exist
* Fixed dual weild with hand-to-hand
* Extended fishing to allow mobs to spawn when items are fished up.
* Made item skill modifiers work.
* Identified meaning of old Skill field of common items.
* made bind wounds actually consume bandaids.
* Made archery and throwing consume ammo
* Archery weapons proc now
* Fixed bard item bonuses to apply to all a bard's spell effects.
* rewrote perl HasQuestFile function to behave properly.
* modified perl quest system to fit better into the virtual parser scheme.
* enforce spell/skill components being on the player, not in bank.
* fixed container loading from DB.
* implemented item skill bonuses
* prevent merchant purchases when inventory full.
* safe fall implemented, but the formula is wrong
* initial implementation of client rampaging
* eliminated a lot of sqrt calls
* added an optional packet profiler to EQ network to count opcodes
* fixed NPC-casted targeted AE spells affecting the caster
* fixed monk special attack damage to be skill based.
* most NPC classes do their special attacks now.
* fixed multi-dose potions \(not 100% sure they were broken\)
* implemented Percental Heal spells
* put caps on haste, HP, and mana regeneration items
* Changed HP regen to work without client's regen packet, which it dosent send anymore.
* Updated natural HP regen to be closer to live.
* corrected AC calculations
* Implemented new discipline interface.
* Added new perl function \(traindisc\(itemid\)\) to facilitate training disciplines
* changed discipline reuse timer to a ptimer, since it is long.
* implemented a ton of new spell effects to support disciplines.
* implemented PoP item attributes like shielding, accuracy, etc...
* rewrote much of group system to better support multi-zone groups.
* groups given world-wide IDs instead of zone local.
* group disbanding when split between zones works.
* Fixed warrior/monk triple attack
* Fixed NPC AE spells to respect faction
* Tweaked NPC non-caster mobs being able to cast 'proc' spells.
* Fixed base resistance calculations to match the client.
* Cleaned up NPC spell interruption messages when they were not needed.
* DOTs no longer make you stand every tic.
* Fixed mob immunities special flags
* Added new mob immunities: snare, magic, meele
* Immunity to stuns now includes spin effects as well
* Trading with NPCs should correctly handle no drop items.
* fixed AA EXP setting
* allow starting items to include books and empty bags
* Fixed starting zones problem on char creation.
* Allow bards to move and use clicky items.
* Make NPC casters send stop moving packet when they cast.
* Fixed archery ammo searching to fall over to inventory.
* mobs now dual-weild based on a chance instead of garunteed
* groups do not grant EXP if the mob is green to any group members
* some NPC combat tweaks to balance it over the levels better. Needs through testing.
* EXP is now awarded to the top damaging player/group instead of killer
* fixed donal's complete heal
* fixed AC calculations for high-agi players
* Changed mobs with primary faction = 0 to be indifferent.
* If a player logs/zones in to a Z below the world, they are placed at a valid Z if possible.
* labeled new item field as attuneable, updated DB code for it

## 10/10/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed some issues with hp and mana.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed bug with zoning z coord.

## 10/09/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed spell scribing and meming.
* **LethalEncounter** Merged in Xabob's expansion fixes \(except regen which FNW is working on\).
* **LethalEncounter** Merged in RangerDown's fixed version of \#spawnfix.
* **LethalEncounter** Fix for \#zcolor that was brought up by rmanders on the bug forum.
* **LethalEncounter** Character conversions from 5.7 to 5.9 should be fixed now.
* **LethalEncounter** Implicit length fix and mana struct fixed.

## 10/05/2004

* **FatherNitwit** Fix name generator opcode
* **FatherNitwit** Added loot table drop chance fix
* **FatherNitwit** Cleaned up some map code and other thing

## 10/02/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Updated AAs so they are sent based on class now.

## 10/02/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Updated to version 5.9-DR2 \(EQLive Compatible\).

## 10/02/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Updated all the structs/opcodes necessary to login using the latest client.

## 10/02/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Misc AA fixes.

## 09/29/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed AAs, you can now buy them correctly.  Big thanks to Xabob for PacketCollecting the information for me!!

## 09/26/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed the displaying of AAs, moving them into two tables. Be SURE to source aa.sql for these updates.

  ```text
     (Will fix the buying aspect soon)
  ```

## 09/25/2004

* **Doodman** Fixed linux kernel 2.6.x shared memory bug.  IPC\_NOWAIT is not allowd on shared memory segment operations.

## 09/20/2004

* **Scorpious2k** Allow multiple Perl plug-ins

## 09/17/2004

* **Doodman** \(un\)fixed world to hand the LS-&gt;world hand off like it did in the past

## 08/21/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Finished updating few structs, can now login with latest client.  Merchants, combat, loot, etc work fine.

## 08/20/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed player profile.

## 08/12/2004

* **Cofruben**Added basics of begging.
* **Cofruben**Added group splitting.

## 08/10/2004

* **Wiz** Severely cleaned up position update code and made it more efficent. Should drastically reduce update packets generated by other clients.
* **Wiz** Improved the LOS calculation. It should use less CPU and work better now.

## 08/02/2004

* **Scorpious2k** Changed Quest command settimer to reuse timers with same name instead of creating new

## 07/26/2004

* **Cofruben** Added some perl functions,including: ding,addldonpoint,surname,permaclass/race/gender,scribespells.

## 07/20/2004

* **Draupner** Added \#npcedit

## 07/19/2004

Doodman\(WizeOne\): Added beacon.o and embxs.o to makefile.perl

* **Doodman** Fixed \#serverinfo for linux.

## 07/12/2004

Doodman\(RangerDown\): Added "You cannot attack while invulnerable" message.

## 07/10/2004

* **Scorpious2k** Fixed AA related exploit
* **Scorpious2k** Fixed AA problem where % remained if player lost levels to below 51

## 06/27/2004

* **Scorpious2k** Added quest command spawn2 \* same as spawn except also requires heading
* **Scorpious2k** Modified Quest Globals. It now always creates a unique var if char specific \(not ALL players\)
* **Scorpious2k** Enabled traders
* **Sandy** Changed mobs so they must have SPECATK\_SUMMON to summon players

## 06/23/2004

* **Rogean** Mobs no longer Dual Wield with Shields

## 06/22/2004

* **Sandy** Event Aggro added
* **Sandy** Permaroot added
* **Sandy** x,y,z variables for quests corrected

## 06/17/2004

* **Dspirit** More patch 6/16 opcodes corrected

## 06/16/2004

* **Dspirit** Patch 6/16 opcodes corrected

## 06/14/2004

* **Dspirit** More opcodes corrected

## 06/13/2004

* **Dspirit** Multiple opcodes corrected

## 06/12/2004

* **LethalEncounter** \#zone fixed.
* **Rogean** Fixed inspecting items in adventure window.
* **Rogean/Scorpious2k** AA Fixes Implimented

## 06/11/2004

* **Doodman** Fixed OP\_HPUpdate and SendHPUpate.  Client now gets proper HP updates.

## 06/11/2004

Scorpious2k/ _\*Image_ \#reloadqst now works for perl \(Reloads the entire zones quest files\).

## 05/29/2004

* **Scorpious2k** Changed opcode to fix trade windows &gt;&gt; THANKS Dspirit

## 05/29/2004

* **Scorpious2k** Merged in Sandy's EVENT\_HP code
* **Scorpious2k** Merged in Bleh's Perl/XS enhancement
* **Scorpious2k** Added quest commands for mob movement stop\(\),start\(\),pause\(\),resume\(\) and moveto\(\)

## 05/28/2004

* **Doodman/Bleh** Move NPCTypes out of shared mem in to zone specific STL maps.
* **Doodman/Bleh** Removed NPCTypes.o from makefile in EMuShareMem
* **Doodman/Bleh** Fixed null pointer dereference in selling

## 5/15/2004

* **Doodman** Upped MMF\_MAX\_NPCTYPE\_ID to 400k to support tcsmyworlds db
* **Doodman** Fixed EQNetwork.cpp to be C++ standard compliant, -not\* MS compliant

## 5/11/2004

* **Image** Better netcode, rawr.
* **Scorpious2k** Added AC to mobs \* be sure to check MobACupdate.sql
* **Scorpious2k** Changed AC so it can now be controlled with serverOp variables ACreduction, ACrandom & ACfail
* **Scorpious2k** Added check so items with req level can't be auto equipped if player not &gt;= req level
* **Scorpious2k** Added generic \(theme = 0\) LDoN point processing

## 5/6/2004

* **Image** Fixed tradeskill places like smiths

## 4/28/2004

* **Image** EQNetwork changes to get packets to send in order
* **Image** Fixed zones getting bugged \(unable to attack, see others, etc.\)

## 4/23/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Emu works with the latest patch now.  Sony did some crazy crap and added 4608 bytes to player profile :/

## 4/20/2004

* **Image** Lifetap now works on PVP
* **Image** Fixed the stacks of snare/root/speed, snare breaks speed spells \(SOW,JBoots,etc.\), root breaks snare, root breaks speed spells also.

## 4/17/2004

* **LethalEncounter**  Fixed merchants that were broken in the last patch.
* **Image**  Inventory item combining added to decrease the traffic sent on zoning.

## 4/16/2004

* **LethalEncounter**  Fixed item struct that was changed in the last patch, items now work again.

## 4/15/2004

* **LethalEncounter**  Fixed Player Profile that was changed in the last patch, you can now login correctly.

## 4/08/2004

Scorpious2k & Tark: Fixed incompatability problem with Perl and combined packets

## 4/02/2004

* **Image** Improvements made on the combination code.

## 3/29/2004

* **Image** Combined packets now work to full extent.  Set app priority to 6 if you don't want it combined, all packets should no longer be deflated,encrypted unless priority 6.
* **Scorpious2k** Fixed mob movement

## 3/28/2004

* **Scorpious2k** Added quest command signal\(\) and EVENT\_SIGNAL
* **Scorpious2k** Made mobs face player for EVENT\_SAY and EVENT\_ITEM
* **Scorpious2k** Added smogo's $hasitem for perl quests
* **Scorpious2k** Added selfcast\(\) command to perl quests

## 3/23/2004

* **Scorpious2k** Added AC. Probably needs major adjusting of values to match live, but its a start.

## 3/22/2004

* **image** Group inviting is fixed.

## 3/21/2004

* **solar** corrected an issue with channeling skill/regaining concentration
* **solar** changed spell resist so that only detrimental spells are resist checked.

  will have to flag beneficial flags that need resist checking later.

## 3/20/2004

* **solar** spell resists implemented
* **solar** added/fixed up some spell effects. notable ones are the stackable

  hastes like melody of ervaj

* **solar** added new version of Wiz's CheckLos routine
* **solar** fixed a problem with detrimental buffs \(root, mez\) not working in pvp

## 3/15/2004

* **solar** door updates, find sql file in release dir \* doorupdate-03-15-04.sql

## 3/13/2004

* **solar** fixed zone to zone movement occasionally not working

## 3/10/2004

* **solar** spells that are group only should only work on the group now.

## 3/07/2004

* **solar** moving coin around should work properly now

## 3/06/2004

* **solar** looted stackable items should distribute properly now.

## 3/05/2004

* **solar** player armor will appear the proper color now
* **solar** LoY Dye works. You need a vial of prismatic dye for each slot you

  want to change the color of.

* **solar** looting differentiates between left and right clicks. left clicking

  will put the item on your cursor as expected, and right clicking will

  auto equip it.

* **solar** containers can now be auto equip looted

## 3/02/2004

* **solar** implemented AE location spells. ex: rain of lava, sentinel. small

  issue with this still; the caster continues to execute the casting

  animation for the duration of the spell.

## 3/01/2004

* **solar** started implementing AE rain type spells, still some work left to do.

  There are 2 new files for a Beacon class that you have to add to

  the build.

## 2/29/2004

* **solar** revised and corrected a ton of spell effect stuff
* **solar** corrected an hp regen issue, but need to get the proper calculations

  for regen rates. until corrected, clients will see their hp regen

  and then immediately change to what the server thinks it should be

* **solar** probably broke something

## 2/28/2004

* **solar** spells will now consume reagents properly
* **solar** lifts work again
* **solar** corrected a mistake that caused spells to not finish scribing properly
* **solar** fixed some memory leak issues regarding hp updates

## 2/25/2004

* **Scorpious2k** Added vesuvias changes for 5.5 \* luclin appearence should work now

## 2/22/2004

* **solar** spells should be in working order again, more work to be done on this.

## 2/20/2004

* **solar** merged vesuvias' appearance \(face, beard etc\) and zone change

  changes from the old code.

## 2/19/2004

* **kathgar** Fixed, SE\_Fear, SE\_SpinStun, SE\_Charm for fixed duration spells and not double checking breaking

  ```text
  Range check on Archery
  Skill checks on Hide and Sneak
  Fixed exp deaths in PvP by DoTs cast by clients, spells cast by clients no longer in zone, and client pets
    Added member bool client to Buff_Struct to aid in above fix
  Fixed solar's changelog entry where he spelled my name wrong
  No EQLive fixes in this change
  ```

* **solar** fixed a bug that was causing people to be set as gm when they shouldn't

## 2/15/2004

* **solar** characters being created are checked for validity now. thanks to

  kathgar for the tables.

## 2/14/2004

* **Zaphod** Added Door ZonePoint information.

## 2/13/2004

* **solar** Doors should work now
* **solar** adventure merchant stuff fully working \(check me\)
* **solar** petition interface stuff believed to be working but not fully tested
* **LethalEncounter** \(entered by solar\) fixed item opcode, items fully working

## 2/12/2004

* **solar** Opcodes updated from Zaphod's list, also a few others. All the ops

  that are tabbed in are unconfirmed, and I marked unused ones also.

## 2/10/2004

* **Image** NewSource directory created for 0.5.5 \(EQLive Compatability Developement\)
* **Image** Few opcodes updated, also implicitlen updated.

## 2/8/2004

* **solar** fixed a world crash regarding deleting an empty character slot

## 2/7/2004

* **solar** AE spells working properly now
* **solar** wrote all new buff duration formulas
* **solar** buffs being applied will properly displace multiple buffs if needed
* **solar** bard spells should keep casting while sitting now
* **solar** mobs should now have a proper casting animation when they cast

## 2/6/2004

* **solar** some buff stacking changes, misc spell stuff

## 2/5/2004

* **solar** more spell work, bards should be in a working state, but not done.

## 2/3/2004

* **Image** Divine Aura now works cross zone.
* **Image** Invisibility now works cross zone.
* **Image** Added a zone\(""\); command to quest \(Zones them to the specified short zone name\)
* **Image** Added selfcast\("spellid"\); command to quest \(Makes client cast spells on themself, good for self only spells\)
* **Image** Tons of my personal GW stuff changed, you can't see bwuhahahhah
* **Image** Fixed platinum duping
* **Image** Levitate now works cross zone \(others see you levitate and not warping\)

## 2/2/2004

* **Scorpious2k** added quest global variables \(requires DB change see quest\_globals.txt in EQEmu Release\)\)
* **Scorpious2k** fixed faction command in parser

## 2/2/2004

* **solar** worked on buff stacking and some misc spell stuff.

## 2/1/2004

* **solar** group spell fixes
* **solar** implemented /targetgroupbuff

## 1/31/2004

* **solar** revised the StringID based messaging.

## 1/30/2004

* **solar** Merged in Wiz's CheckLos\(\) mob method
* **solar** Spell casting fixes.
* **solar** Channeling skill should work very similar to live now. If you end

  your casting where you started you have a chance to finish casting.

* **solar** Line of sight is checked for spells.

## 1/29/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed an issue with HT and LoH not repopping, apparently fatigue in player profile was moved into the timer hours slot.
* **solar** Updated death. You shouldn't receive an extra message about being

  punched when you die to a spell anymore.

## 1/28/2004

* **solar** fixed an item dupe bug.

## 1/26/2004

* **solar** various fixes to spells, more coming.

## 1/25/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Fixed some issues with the guilds.
* **LethalEncounter** No Rent items will now be deleted if your offline for more than 30 minutes.

## 1/24/2004

* **LethalEncounter** The guild management tool has been updated and works again.
* **LethalEncounter** Guilds will now work almost 100% like live, only a few of the \#guild commands are left over, mainly for gm management.
* **kathgar** Added \#revoke and \#oocmute
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed some resist issues with some spells.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed item charges from merchants.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed expansion issues like not being able to use Adventure merchants.
* **solar** bodytypes should be working correctly from the db now. Also added it

  to \#spawn and \#npcstats. Pets are all summoned, except necro which

  are summoned and undead. Apply the bodytype\_update.sql in release

  to flag your mobs.

* **solar** /surname command corrects capitalization and rejects non alpha now.
* **solar** \#name fixed \* renames player target
* **solar** made some fixes to kathgar's revoke patch \* it now works as intended.

## 1/23/2004

* **solar** LD clients should now be kicked when the LD timer is up, even if engaged.
* **solar** Buffs should be working correctly after zoning now.
* **solar** \#gassign fixes

## 1/22/2004

* **solar** Corpses are now sent to clients zoning in.

## 1/21/2004

* **Trumpcard** Merged in mongrels fix for undead/invis. Use update sql provided in release to update.
* **solar** Buff fading should work for slots besides the first one now. This will

  fix the 'mez bug' that was due to the icon not being stripped.

## 1/20/2004

* **solar** sense heading skill will now improve as you move around

## 1/19/2004

* **Scorpious2k** fixed faction command for quests
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a problem with queued cursor items.
* **solar** fixes to \#gassign

## 1/18/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Added item and spell bonuses to the mana regen formulas, they will now help.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed a bug that was killing players even when they had hitpoints remaining.
* **LethalEncounter** Added server side filters
* **LethalEncounter** Added a new command \(\#setstat\) that allows you to set a characters stats.
* **LethalEncounter** Added a new quest command that allows you to modify a characters stats.
* **LethalEncounter** Added the ability for a player to have more than one item on their cursor at once.  They will be queued like on live.
* **Scorpious2k** added random name generator for char create
* **Scorpious2k** changed order of parameters in flag console command to allow for spaces in name
* **kathgar**  Added FLAG\_COMBINED and FLAG\_IMPLICIT support, define COMBINED to try it
* **solar** fixed \#mana
* **solar** fixed mana disappearing when you're interrupted mid cast
* **solar** applied kathgar's PetCommand crash fix
* **solar** fixed a pvp damage crash
* **solar** fixed channeling skill rolling over back to 1
* **solar** bumped PVP spell damage to 2/3 from 1/2 of normal

## 1/17/2004

* **Image** Memleaks for LDTimer, stamina\_timer, CreateHPPacket have been fixed.
* **Image** World server now boots people with status &lt; 0.
* **solar** Reworked melee hit/miss calculations to work better

## 1/16/2004

* **solar** Mez spells break properly on players now
* **solar** added a \#stun command, takes a duration from 1 to 65535
* **solar** Fixed mana disappearing when a spell like cannibalize or necro

  subversion is cast.

* **solar** Fixed incorrect conditional that was causing ALL damage done TO a

  client to be halved. Now only client to client damage is halved.

* **solar** Fixed a bug with the spell cast timer bar disappearing prematurely

  and the spell gems readying themselves while a spell was still being

  cast.

* **solar** Spells should interrupt properly when you duck, or are otherwise

  interrupted while casting.

## 1/15/2004

* **solar** HP should regen properly now

## 1/14/2004

* **solar** Divine Aura spells should now work

## 1/10/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Added ability for groups to zone.
* **LethalEncounter** Added the ability to use snares and roots in pvp.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed mob movement to be more like live and to work correctly.
* **LethalEncounter** Added the tracking skill.
* **LethalEncounter** You will now get hit for max damage when you are sitting and an npc attacks.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed loot messages.
* **LethalEncounter** Fixed loot so right click autoequips correctly now.

## 1/4/2004

* **MYRA** changed to new opcode for follow
* **MYRA** changed to new opcode for taunt
* **MYRA** use new \(5.x\) Status labels in who for telnet connection
* **MYRA** Added code to depop at end of grid for wander type 4
* **MYRA** Added wander type 4 \(single run\)
* **MYRA** fixed eval in ExportVar per Eglin
* **MYRA** corrected spelling for var $uguildrank for event\_timer \(was $uguildrang\)
* **MYRA** added vars $status & $cumflag per Eglin
* **MYRA** added vars $mobid & $mlevel per Eglin
* **MYRA** added missing commands + itemlink to perl
* **MYRA** added EVAL & KEEPERR to eval per Eglin's recommendation
* **MYRA** restore missing commands for qst type files & add itemlink
* **MYRA** fixed comma bug for me command
* **MYRA** fixed comma bug for echo command
* **MYRA** fixed comma bug for say command
* **MYRA** fixed comma bug for emote command
* **MYRA** fixed comma bug for shout command
* **MYRA** added itemlink\(ItemNumber\) command

## 1/2/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Added further support for eqstr\_us.txt, this should cut down on lag.
* **Image** Fixed client lockup related to spells. aka 'spell sticking'.

## 1/1/2004

* **LethalEncounter** Updated spell structure to new spells\_us.txt format. NOTE: You must have the latest eqlive spells\_us.txt in your EQEmu directory.

