---
description: EverQuest Emulator Server code changes for year 2007
---

# 2007

## 12/06/2007

* **KLS** Fixed logic on duration 7 formula.. again.

## 12/02/2007

* **KLS** Reworked buff duration formula 7 calculations.
* **KLS** \(Cripp\)Added \(Missing?\) pathing z rules.

## 11/30/2007

* **FatherNitwit** Reworked pathing z code to be rules based instead of built time options.

## 11/29/2007

* **FatherNitwit** \(Derision\) Fix BestZ pathing cleanup code top stop hopping.
* **FatherNitwit** \(Derision\) New fix-z-on-load feature.

## 11/28/2007

* **Rogean** Fixed another no-drop trade hack.

## 11/26/2007

* **KLS** Dynamic zones will now not attempt to boot up more than one instance of the zone if two or more clients request it in quick succession.
* **KLS** Fixed: qglobals will now not be exported for npcs that do not have the qglobal flag set in the perl parser.
* **KLS** Added a new npc special attack 'H' for immune to aggro, mobs with this set should not aggro no matter what a person does to them.
* **KLS** Fixed ATK loading in item bonuses
* **KLS** AEDuration calculation will now take target type into account correctly
* **KLS** Player pets should now persist through a teleport spell
* **KLS** Players will now be able to target themselves for group spells if they are not in a group
* **KLS** Fixed some buff duration oddities.
* **KLS** Level should have somewhat less of an impact for players in the resist code.

## 11/14/2007

* **KLS** Swarm pets should be forced to correctly depop after their owner disappears.
* **KLS** NPCs should be able to use swarm pets correctly now.
* **KLS** \#traindisc should no longer learn disciplines over already known disciplines.
* **KLS** Added a few more known spell effects to spdat.h, not implemented any yet
* **KLS** Rez experience should now only goto regular experience, not AA experience.

## 11/07/2007

* **KLS** Reworked swarm pets a bit
* **KLS** Swarm pets should no longer crash zones\(I hope\)
* **KLS** Swarm pets will now gain all their information from the normal pet tables and the spell data, as a result the aa\_swarmpets table is now obsolete.

## 11/06/2007

* **KLS** Reverted client timeouts.
* **KLS** Fixed NPC HP and Mana Regen not loading from DB for NPCs

## 11/05/2007

* **WildcardX** Fixed a bug that prevented player corpse summoning spells from working on Linux platforms.

## 11/04/2007

* **WildcardX** The spell "Reanimation" will no longer restore any player experience. This is a 0% experience resurrection.
* **WildcardX** Corpses moved by a consented player will now remember where it was moved to, even after a zone restart.
* **WildcardX** Necromancers and Shadowknights can now summon corpses belonging to other players.
* **WildcardX** Corrected a bug that would have allowed Necromancers and Shadownights to summon corpses belonging to non-grouped party members.

## 11/03/2007

* **WildcardX** \(Cavedude\) Implemented perl wrappers for new quest methods supporting the Shadowrest zone implementation.
* **WildcardX** Fixed a bug that prevented a player from experiencing resurrection effects in designated no combat zones.
* **WildcardX** Fixed a bug in graveyard system that could leave a player corpse in the database, but without a location.
* **WildcardX** Fixed a bug that could prevent the corpse decay timer from expiring because the graveyard timer would reset before.
* **WildcardX** Implemented support for the Shadowrest zone. This is configured to be disabled by default.
* **WildcardX** Implemented the command \#summonburriedplayercorpse.
* **WildcardX** Implemented the command \#getplayerburriedcorpsecount.
* **WildcardX** Implemented the quest function bool summonburriedplayercorpse\(int32 char\_id, float dest\_x, float dest\_y, float dest\_z, float dest\_heading\).
* **WildcardX** Implemented the quest function int32 getplayerburriedcorpsecount\(int32 char\_id\).

Required SQL: alter table player\_corpses add column IsBurried TINYINT\(3\) NOT NULL default 0; alter table player\_corpses add column WasAtGraveyard TINYINT\(3\) NOT NULL default 0; insert into rule\_values values\(0, 'Zone:EnableShadowrest', 0\);

## 11/01/2007

* **WildcardX** \(TheLieka\) Bug fix to discontinue player invisibility when the player loots.
* **WildcardX** \(TheLieka\) Bug fix to remove a type from the \#npcedit loottable command.
* **WildcardX** Implemented corpse graveyard support for all zones. Once a zone is configured for a graveyard, a zone restart is necessary.
* **WildcardX** Zone shutdown and restart will result in all player corpses within the zone to be subject to the graveyard corpse timer.
* **WildcardX** Implemented the command \#setgraveyard \[zone name\]. This command will create a graveyard for the designated zone based on your target's LOC.
* **WildcardX** Implemented the command \#deletegraveyard \[zone name\]. This command will remove the graveyard for the designated zone \(does not delete any corpses!\).

Required SQL: alter table zone add column graveyard\_id float NOT NULL default '0' after safe\_z;

DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `graveyard`; CREATE TABLE `graveyard` \( `id` int\(11\) NOT NULL auto\_increment, `zone_id` int\(4\) NOT NULL default '0', `x` float NOT NULL default '0', `y` float NOT NULL default '0', `z` float NOT NULL default '0', `heading` float NOT NULL default '0', PRIMARY KEY \(`id`\), UNIQUE KEY `zone_id` \(`zone_id`\) \) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1;

insert into rule\_values values\(0, 'Zone:GraveyardTimeMS', 1200000\);

## 10/19/2007

* **WildcardX** \(Bleh\) Enhancement to avoid a zone crash by avoiding a null pointer.
* **WildcardX** \(UrbeIT\) Bug fix to allow pet spells to effect players in PVP.
* **WildcardX** \(UrbeIT\) Bug fix to allow players to remain invisible while in PVP.
* **WildcardX** \(Foin\) Bug fix to display the correct pet for Ogre and Iksar beastlords.
* **WildcardX** \(slowglass\) Bug fix to properly update LDoN points.
* **WildcardX** \(cbodmer\) Bug fix to allow the bank change button to properly work.
* **WildcardX** \(zydria\) Bug fix to allow players to meditate while mounted.
* **WildcardX** \(Cavedude\) Enhancement to allow berserkers and rangers the chance to triple attack.
* **WildcardX** \(Cavedude\) Enhancement to quest::movepc method to accept a heading value.

## 10/17/2007

* **KLS** Quick fix to quest::movegrp

## 10/11/2007

* **KLS** Familiars should fall under the pet system instead of their own system now, familiars should act in a much more behaved fashion when it comes to functionality shared with normal pets.
* **KLS** Added a network timeout for clients in zone, clients should linkdead from zone when their connection is suddenly severed.
* **KLS** \(AiliaMorisato\) Added some checks for item bonuses, bonuses should not calculate if the item is not equipable.
* **KLS** NPCs should now accept signals while engaged in combat.

## 10/10/2007

* **FatherNitwit** Quick fix for Divine Aura on pets exploit \(KingMort\)

## 10/09/2007

* **KLS** Tweaked my AC system a bit, should get less default defense and the system should be much more lienent overall,

  goal is to allow people to see more of a benefit from having AC.

## 09/24/2007

* **FatherNitwit** \(sfisque\) Quick adjustment to item fishing probability.

## 09/07/2007

* **KLS** Fixed melee mitigation and tweaks and a small fix to AC.
* **KLS** Small changes to the order in the getweapondamage code to make it a little more efficient
* **KLS** Added a field that allows you to override a factions innate desire to assist their own faction in battle to the npc\_faction table

Required SQL: alter table npc\_faction add column ignore\_primary\_assist tinyint\(3\) not null default 0;

## 08/31/2007

* **KLS** \(gernblan\) Added spawn group info to \#npcstats
* **KLS** \(TheLieka\) Fix for zone exp modifiers not being used
* **KLS** \(inkubus\) Lull and harmony spells should land on enemy targets and not cause any aggro, still some work to be done on the AE portion.
* **KLS** \(cbodmer\) Pet aggro changed, owner will no longer gain more aggro from proximity than the pet
* **KLS** \(cbodmer\) Support for LDoN style boxes \(class 62 + body type 33\) implemented
* **KLS** The error in acmod\(\) should no longer complain as much.

  Required: Opcode files have changed, be sure to update to the latest .conf files.

## 08/30/2007

* **KLS** Reworked Mob::GetWeaponDamage\(\), it will now return damage done by any item and NULL and will return a

  value zero or less if we can't hit a mob with said item

* **KLS** Applied new GetWeaponDamage\(\) to Attack and Special Attack code
* **KLS** Seperated Finishing Blow code to it's own function
* **KLS** Spell procs and innate procs should now function once again
* **KLS** NPC Weapons have more of an impact on NPC attack code now
* **KLS** Some NPC equipped items should correctly add bonuses to NPCs now
* **KLS** NPCs should no longer be able to dual wield with two-handed weapons
* **KLS** NPC weapons should properly show up if the item model is particularly high
* **KLS** Changed NPC\_DW\_CHANCE in features.h to 100% as default as opposed to the previous 5%
* **KLS** Archery will be affected by various crit AA effects and spell bonuses
* **KLS** Applied haste and slow modifiers to basic NPC special attacks such as kick and bash.

## 08/26/2007

* **KLS** Fixed a misplaced field in the titanium spawn structure that was causing some spawn display issues on titanium.

## 08/16/2007

* **KLS** Some cleaning up on autofire code
* **KLS** Reintroduction of item animation for archery

## 08/15/2007

* **KLS** Fixed an /autofire crash
* **KLS** Added some conditions to RangedAttack\(\) for now. Should keep from using ranged attacks when we shouldn't be allowed to attack.

## 08/14/2007

* **KLS** Added /autofire
* **KLS** Fixed up SetAttackTimer\(\) calculations a bit, especially when it comes to ranged attacks. Hopefully fewer instances where ranged attacks will be wasted because of the attack timer.
* **KLS** Ranged attack crits will now work no matter your chance to hit, also changed the appearances a tiny bit and added a min range check for /autofire.
* **KLS** Removed ReadBook packet size checking for now.. it was checking a wrong size and canceling out legitimate book requests

  Make sure to update your .conf files to get /autoattack to work.

## 08/12/2007

* **KLS** A little bit more tinkering with how potions and stacks work.

## 08/11/2007

* **KLS** Fixed stackable potions in the item packet, they should now appear to have 1 charge instead of 0.
* **KLS** Added support for stackable items above 20.
* **KLS** Fixed forage, it will no longer overwrite slot 30 to create it's item, instead it will push the item onto the cursor like it should.

## 08/10/2007

* **KLS** Fixed a stacking issue and made res effects not count to normal stacking rules.
* **KLS** Implemented a few more passive AA effects.
* **KLS** Added CanThisClassBlock\(\) for the avoid code
* **KLS** Addressed some inconsistancies in the CanThisClass line of functions, GM classes should be able to do everything their base class can now.

## 08/01/2007

* **FatherNitwit** \(cavedude\) Fix Iksar BL pet appearance.

## 07/30/2007

* **Rogean** Fixed an item dupe exploit.

## 07/28/2007

* **Rogean** Put in checks for No Drop Trading Hacks

## 07/26/2007

* **KLS** Updated AA\_Data.sql, still work to be done but should now be more complete than older AA sources.

## 07/22/2007

* **FatherNitwit** Fixed another memory leak in world and zone.
* **KLS** Fixed up some message types so they match the client correctly.

## 07/21/2007

* **Rogean** Fixed LDoN Merchant Item Inspect

## 07/20/2007

* **FatherNitwit** \(Striat\) Fix for typos in perlparser.cpp to fix quest::me and quest::echo.
* **FatherNitwit** \(Striat\) Fix argument type in quest::setguild.
* **FatherNitwit** Fixed quest::settime
* **Rogean** Fixed up strikethrough a little
* **Rogean** Removed ability to proc on a riposte attack
* **Rogean** Implimented HoTT \(Health of Target's Target\) Functionality. This will only work for people with HoTT Built into their interface.

  To get UI Files for a Target Window, see [http://www.eqemulator.net/forums/showthread.php?p=135291](http://www.eqemulator.net/forums/showthread.php?p=135291)

* **FatherNitwit** Fix a few memory leaks.

  Changes to opcode files:

  patch\_Titanium.conf: OP\_TargetHoTT=0x6a12

  patch\_6.2.conf: OP\_TargetHoTT=0x3ef6

## 07/16/2007

* **FatherNitwit** \(Glather\) Fix for mobs showing weapons
* **FatherNitwit** \(Cbodmer\) Notify owner when buffs wear off pets.

## 6/06/2007

* **KLS** \(Darkonig\) Change to the way tradeskill containers are handled.
* **KLS** \(Darkonig\) Change to item-&gt;isStackable\(\) implementation, should let certain items that the client lets stack also stack server-side.

## 6/01/2007

* **KLS** Addressed a memory leak in spell code and a memory leak in NPC destruction code.

## 4/13/2007

* **KLS** Fixed an issue with buff duration inc. that was causing buffs to lose their effects \(I hope\)

## 4/08/2007

* **KLS** Added support for the skill Frenzy.
* **KLS** Various tweaks and changes to some passive AA abilities.
* **KLS** Added \#traindisc to train disciplines on the target player, \#scribespells should no longer memorize disciplines to the spellbook.
* **KLS** Fixed an issue with spells that require components that use item ids higher than 32k
* **KLS** Fixed an issue with AAs and focus effects that increase buff duration not appearing correctly for clients until they zone.

## 4/02/2007

* **KLS** Implemented number6 inspired item cooldown timers.
* **KLS** Added rules: NPC:MinorNPCCorpseDecayTimeMS & NPC:MajorNPCCorpseDecayTimeMS to set the decay time in millisecond of mobs below 55 and greater or equal to 55 respectively
* **KLS** Addressed an issue that caused some beneficial spells to generate incorrect aggro amounts.
* **KLS** Implemented some more passive PoP AA skills.
* **KLS** Fixed an problem with avoidance AAs adding chance to be hit instead of subtracting it.
* **KLS** Small change to the way pets and familiars initially aggro, familiars should never aggro now.
* **KLS** Fixed an issue where the combat code was checking for warrior triple attack but the skill check would always fail.
* **KLS** Critical hits should now be filterable as critical hits.
* **KLS** Redid hp and mana calculations based on magelo formulas, should be much more accurate, especially when using AA that increase hp.
* **KLS** Made mend skill checks more lienent, shouldn't ever fail after 200 skill, shouldn't ever hurt you after 150
* **KLS** Initial implementation of hp balance spell effect.
* **KLS** Focus effects that limit max level should now correctly reduce the effect by a percentage if the spell is over the level cap

## 3/26/2007

* **FatherNitwit** Optimized the merchantlist\_temp query on boot.

## 3/14/2007

* **KLS** Put in FNW's requested changes to tradeskill combines from the other day that I almost forgot about
* **KLS** Tradeskill combines should check for container type now.

## 3/11/2007

* **KLS** Attack\(\) will not set our target unless we have no target now.
* **KLS** Tweaked some invis and hide stuff to hopefully catch more situations where it should break correctly.
* **KLS** Fixed the spell critical hit ratio to be accurate.
* **KLS** Spell Casting Deftness and Quick Buff should now work with spells that have duration formulas.
* **KLS** NPCs will no longer be restricted by the number of targets on their AE spells.
* **KLS** Spells base\_1 will load as a 32 bit signed int instead of a 16 bit signed int, should correct some oddities with certain spells. For example certain summon spells using large item ids.
* **KLS** Fixed a tradeskill exploit with tradeskill containers and experimentation.

## 3/10/2007

* **Rogean** Fixed \#si and minstatus

## 3/3/2007

* **FatherNitwit** Finally rewrote 'make depend' to properly track dependencies in linux builds

## 2/22/2007

* **KLS** Some more changes to AA system:
* **KLS** altadv\_vars.cost\_inc will now be unsigned to allow your skills to cost less per level
* **KLS** Client side aa effects are now loaded from the database once again
* **KLS** Updated AA\_data.sql to include AAs up to planes of power.
* **KLS** Added \#refundaa as a way for server GMs to refund a players alt ability points and give them back their points.
* **KLS** Implemented limited numbered hits on buffs.
* **KLS** Root and charm will now act as partial capable spells.
* **KLS** Vampires will act as undead, which is consistant with what the client thinks is undead.

Required SQL: CREATE TABLE aa\_effects \( id int\(10\) unsigned NOT NULL auto\_increment, aaid mediumint\(8\) unsigned NOT NULL default '0', slot tinyint\(3\) unsigned NOT NULL default '0', effectid mediumint\(8\) unsigned NOT NULL default '0', base1 mediumint\(8\) unsigned NOT NULL default '0', base2 mediumint\(8\) unsigned NOT NULL default '0', PRIMARY KEY \(id\), UNIQUE KEY NewIndex \(aaid,slot\) \) TYPE=MyISAM;

Optional SQL: Resource AA\_Data.sql

## 2/18/2007

* **WildcardX** Player casted area of effect detrimental spells will not longer have an affect on players not engaged in PvP.
* **WildcardX** Fixed spawnlimit setting to control the maximum times a given npc\_type can spawn in the same zone.
* **WildcardX** \(Bleh\) Fixed player emote animations.
* **WildcardX** Implemented a server-side check of a Client object's target to avoid it being null.
* **WildcardX** Fixed a zone crash that could occurr during a monk special attack or a rogue's backstab attack.
* **WildcardX** Area of effect beneficial spells will no longer affect non-player characters.

## 2/16/2007

* **KLS** Updating Changelog AA work to be more clear as well as the required SQL.

Required SQL: alter table altadv\_vars add column cost\_inc tinyint\(4\) not null default 0;

Optionally: Source in AA\_data.sql

## 2/15/2007

* **WildcardX** Commented out the code supporting the deprecated OP\_CloseContainer opcode.
* **WildcardX** Fixed world containers so when one player has closed a world container, another player can open it without the need for the first player to leave the zone.
* **KLS** Initial release of ongoing AA work
* **KLS** Most\(Not all\) Alternate Advancement abilities up to SoL Class working correctly with correct costs and client side effects
* **KLS** Fixed many many AA related bugs
* **KLS** Fixed Activatable AA buttons on titanium
* **KLS** Added \#altactivate command to facilitate the new AA work
* **KLS** Added Character:ConsumptionMultiplier rule.
* **KLS** Server wont send a eat/drink message unless the player forces the client to eat/drink
* **KLS** Fixed an issue with TGB working in a backwards manner.
* **KLS** Fixed an issue with AE bard spells hitting the bard instead of the targets around him.
* **KLS** Fixed an issue with cancel magic spells that made them act as completely beneficial spells.
* **KLS** Added many missing spell effects into spdat.h
* **KLS** Fixed a beneficial aggro issue that was resulting in certain clicky items giving significant amounts of aggro.
* **KLS** MOBs with pets or familiars already out will not attempt to cast pet spells.
* **KLS** Curse, Poison, and Disease counters will go past 256 and all be active but will reset on zoning
* **KLS** Curse counters will work now.
* **KLS** Intimidation should work under the new skill cap rules.
* **KLS** Killing something will no longer clear your server side target unless you killed your target.
* **KLS** Fixed a int to float conversion issue in CalcRecommendedLevelBonus\(\) \(as per slowglass' post\)
* **KLS** Fixed a crash issue related to resists, should help those crashing after zoning with a spell that has a heartbeat resist such as root.
* **KLS** Removed an unused spell function that didn't make much sense.

## 2/14/2007

* **WildcardX** Implemented a cap of 4 mobs affected by targeted area of effect spells. This is consistent with EQ live.
* **WildcardX** Implemented the succor line of spells.
* **WildcardX** Specific mobs can now be toggled as findable or not findable by the track skill. Mobs which are not findable will not appear on any track lists.

Required SQL: alter table npc\_types add column trackable tinyint\(4\) not null default 1;

## 2/13/2007

* **WildcardX** Fixed bug that broke \#zone command.

## 2/11/2007

* **WildcardX** Further enhancements to zone weather system to reduce the amount of work necessary to perform weather and to make it more logical.
* **WildcardX** Added a new opcode for both 6.2 and Titanium clients, OP\_ZonePlayerToBind=0x385e. Please be sure to update your .conf files.
* **WildcardX** Implemented the beginnings of what will become a new "system" to deal with zoning.
* **WildcardX** Titanium clients will now zone correctly upon death and will not go link dead and get sent to character select screen.
* **WildcardX** Both 6.2 and Titanium clients will now return character view to first person from corpse hover after completing zone to bind point after death.
* **WildcardX** Group member camping will now auto-disband upon an actual logout.
* **WildcardX** Disbanding a link dead group member will no longer crash the zone.
* **WildcardX** Link dead group members will now automatically remove themselves from group.
* **WildcardX** Many zoning situations will now use "heading". This was largely being ignored before. However, there are still a couple more situations where this needs to be implemented. I will continue implementing "heading" as i continue to work on the zoning code.
* **WildcardX** \(Cavedude\) Implemented yet another container type to perform even more quest combines.
* **WildcardX** Added additional logging to zone "debug" and "error" to support zoning and intra-zone movement.
* **WildcardX** Group members disbanding in another zone will still fail to appear as removed from group from other group members, but disbanding this group member when he/she rejoins group in zone will no longer crash the zone and you will be able to re-add this former group member without having to destroy the whole group.

## 2/10/2007

* **FatherNitwit** Reworked NPC Idle spell casting to avoid extra LOS checks \(based on KLS's observations\)
* **FatherNitwit** Reworked NPC spell casting timers to be more consistent.

## 2/9/2007

* **Doodman** Fixed AdventurePoints\_Update\_Struct to be the correct struct.  Same structure for both 6.2 and Ti.  Changed core structure.

## 2/1/2007

* **WildcardX** \(Bleh\) Fixed quest globals.
* **WildcardX** Fixed the common error message MakeNameUnique\(\) has been recording in logs about being unable to make a unique name for mobs greater than 100 in a zone.

Required SQL: ALTER TABLE quest\_globals CHANGE expdate expdate INT;

## 1/29/2007

* **WildcardX** Cleaned up zone weather code for better efficiency. Weather checks will be more frequent when their is snow or rain and less frequent when the sun is out.
* **WildcardX** Made weather log messages more consistent and informative.
* **WildcardX** Druids are now replace bards has the second best tracker in the game. This is consistent with live.
* **WildcardX** Fixed tracking skill. Tracking will now return a full list of every mob within the tracker's skill range, not just the first 100 mobs.
* **WildcardX** Clients will now see their coins update from quests or player trades. No zoning is required anymore.
* **WildcardX** The server is now using the OP\_MoneyUpdate opcode, instead of OP\_MoneyOnCorpse opcode for coin updates.
* **WildcardX** Clients entering a zone will now receive a weather packet. This will ensure all clients in the same zone will experience the same weather.

## 1/23/2007

* **KLS** Fixed the change log so the current entries are correct
* **KLS** Fixed a small but significant crash.

## 1/15/2007

* **KLS** Fixed an issue with storing timers.
* **KLS** Added in hide and basic support of hide improving AAs later
* **KLS** Some more changes to how procs work, perma procs will not be influenced by mob stats, should make them easier to balance.
* **KLS** Some internal changes to critical hits with some future spell effects in mind shouldn't change functionality.
* **KLS** WildCardX's key changes, keys should now work even if they're not on your cursor and no matter where in your inventory it's on you, including your bank
* **KLS** Pickpocket should work considerably better.
* **KLS** Removed some obsolete discipline code that I ran across.
* **KLS** Character:ExpMultiplier rule should work correctly now.
* **KLS** Fixed an issue with the client position update code that should see the server sending fewer redundant client position update packets.

  Required SQL:

  ALTER TABLE `npc_types` ADD `see_hide` tinyint\(4\) NOT NULL default '0';

  ALTER TABLE `npc_types` ADD `see_improved_hide` tinyint\(4\) NOT NULL default '0';

  Optional SQL:

  UPDATE `npc_types` SET `see_hide` = 1 WHERE see\_invis = '1';

  UPDATE `npc_types` SET `see_hide` = 1 WHERE see\_invis\_undead = '1';

## 1/07/2007

* **KLS** action\_struct unknown06 renamed to instrument\_mod to reflect it's behavior
* **KLS** WildCardX inspired weapon proc rate changes, proc rates should now load as a signed int instead of an unsigned int and should correctly calculate.
* **KLS** Some changes to the expired function of ptimers, it should return if the timer is expired whether or not the timer is enabled. This avoids certain situations where timers are disabled and then run down without ever being reenabled and essentially being locked down forever unless the database admin resets it manually.
* **KLS** Also fixed a small ptimer expire bug where if the timer just reached zero it would return expired until it was one second past zero.
* **KLS** Evade will no longer set the rogue's hate to 0, but instead will lower the hate by some amount based on level and the current hate of the monster. May need tweaking as don't know exact values.
* **KLS** Combat Range has been redone a bit so it no longer mixes ints and floats and also correctly factors in the size of the enemy you're fighting. Should prevent exploits where you can hit something rooted/permarooted but they cannot hit you back.
* **KLS** Rampage and enrage have been reworked and should work correctly, rampage will now carry a rampage list of 20 by default that does not get wiped until the monster stops fighting.
* **KLS** Fixed up spell fields and spell loading to make more sense, identified some fields. It should load in order now.
* **KLS** Sneak should now break when you deal / are dealt damage.
* **KLS** Hide should succeed a bit more and use the correct messages: "You have hidden your self from view", "You have failed to hide your self from view"
* **KLS** CalcAC\(\) and CalcATK\(\) now use signed values instead of unsigned.
* **KLS** When a mob returns to their guard point they should now correctly assume their guard heading.
* **KLS** Succor should fully wipe you from hate lists now, as should zoning.
* **KLS** Spin effects are now correctly capped at a max of level 55, all targets above this cannot be affected.
* **KLS** SE\_LimitEffect should now correctly deal with any effect type the spell has and not just the ones hard coded into the server.
* **KLS** \(Cripp\)Fix for zone heading

